{% comment %}
This file is licensed under the MIT License (MIT) available on
http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT.
{% endcomment %}
{% assign filename="_data/devdocs/en/bitcoin-core/rpcs/rpcs/validateaddress.md" %}

##### ValidateAddress
{% include helpers/subhead-links.md %}

{% assign summary_validateAddress="return information about the given DeepOnion address." %}

{% autocrossref %}

The `validateaddress` RPC {{summary_validateAddress}}

*Parameter #1---address*

{% itemplate ntpd1 %}
- n: "address"
  t: "string"
  p: "Required<br>(exactly 1)"
  d: "The DeepOnion address to validate"

{% enditemplate %}

*Result*

{% endautocrossref %}

    {
      "isvalid" : true|false,       (boolean) If the address is valid or not. If not, this is the only property returned.
      "address" : "address",        (string) The DeepOnion address validated
      "scriptPubKey" : "hex",       (string) The hex encoded scriptPubKey generated by the address
      "ismine" : true|false,        (boolean) If the address is yours or not
      "iswatchonly" : true|false,   (boolean) If the address is watchonly
      "isscript" : true|false,      (boolean, optional) If the address is P2SH or P2WSH. Not included for unknown witness types.
      "iswitness" : true|false,     (boolean) If the address is P2WPKH, P2WSH, or an unknown witness version
      "witness_version" : version   (number, optional) For all witness output types, gives the version number.
      "witness_program" : "hex"     (string, optional) For all witness output types, gives the script or key hash present in the address.
      "script" : "type"             (string, optional) The output script type. Only if "isscript" is true and the redeemscript is known. Possible types: nonstandard, pubkey, pubkeyhash, scripthash, multisig, nulldata, witness_v0_keyhash, witness_v0_scripthash, witness_unknown
      "hex" : "hex",                (string, optional) The redeemscript for the P2SH or P2WSH address
      "addresses"                   (string, optional) Array of addresses associated with the known redeemscript (only if "iswitness" is false). This field is superseded by the "pubkeys" field and the address inside "embedded".
        [
          "address"
          ,...
        ]
      "pubkeys"                     (string, optional) Array of pubkeys associated with the known redeemscript (only if "script" is "multisig")
        [
          "pubkey"
          ,...
        ]
      "sigsrequired" : xxxxx        (numeric, optional) Number of signatures required to spend multisig output (only if "script" is "multisig")
      "pubkey" : "publickeyhex",    (string, optional) The hex value of the raw public key, for single-key addresses (possibly embedded in P2SH or P2WSH)
      "embedded" : {...},           (object, optional) information about the address embedded in P2SH or P2WSH, if relevant and known. It includes all validateaddress output fields for the embedded address, excluding "isvalid", metadata ("timestamp", "hdkeypath", "hdmasterkeyid") and relation to the wallet ("ismine", "iswatchonly", "account").
      "iscompressed" : true|false,  (boolean) If the address is compressed
      "account" : "account"         (string) DEPRECATED. The account associated with the address, "" is the default account
      "timestamp" : timestamp,      (number, optional) The creation time of the key if available in seconds since epoch (Jan 1 1970 GMT)
      "hdkeypath" : "keypath"       (string, optional) The HD keypath if the key is HD and available
      "hdmasterkeyid" : "<hash160>" (string, optional) The Hash160 of the HD master pubkey
    }

{% autocrossref %}

*Example*

{% highlight bash %}
DeepOnion-cli validateaddress "Dc7BLTLqSyWSp6uEpQPbbcb7figA7xHjKQ"
{% endhighlight %}

*See also*

* [ImportAddress][rpc importaddress]: {{summary_importAddress}}
* [GetNewAddress][rpc getnewaddress]: {{summary_getNewAddress}}

{% endautocrossref %}
